verb 1 divide; separate; part (opp. 合) 分組討論 fēnzǔ tǎolùn hold discussions in groups 分階段實行 Fēn jiēduàn shíxíng carry out stage by stage 一年分四季。 Yī nián fēn sìjì. The year is divided into four seasons. 這藥分三次吃。 Zhè yào fēn sān cì chī. This medicine is to be taken in three separate doses. 他的頭髮往右邊分。 Tā de tóufa wǎng yòubianfēn. He parts his hair on the right side. 一條河把縣城分成兩半。 Yī tiáo hé bǎ xiànchéng fēn chéng liǎngbàn. A river divides the county town into two parts. 2 distribute; assign; allot 她分到了一套新房子。 Tā fēn dào le yī tào xīn fángzi. She has been allotted a new flat. 把這個任務分給我們吧。 Bǎ zhège rènwu fēn gěi wǒmen ba. Assign (or Give) this task to us, please. 音樂會的票都已經分完了。 Yīnyuèhuì de piào dōu yǐjing fēn wán le. The tickets for the concert have all been distributed. 大學畢業後, 他就分到外交部工作。 Dàxué bìyè hòu, tājiù fēn dào Wàijiāobù gōngzuò. After his graduation from college, he was assigned to work at the Foreign Ministry. 3 distinguish; differentiate 是非不分 shìfēibùfēn make no distinction between right and wrong 現在還分不出個勝負來。 Xiànzài hái fēn bù chū ge shèng-fù lái. It’s still quite impossible to tell who’ll win. 這對雙胞胎長得一模一樣, 簡直分不出誰是誰。 Zhè duì shuāngbāotāi zhǎng de yīmúyīyàng, jiǎnzhí fēn bù chū shuí shì shuí. The twins look so much alike that you can hardly tell them apart.  adjective branch (of an organization) 新華社上海分社 Xīnhuáshè Shànghǎi fēnshè the Shanghai Branch of the Xinhua News Agency  measure word 1 fraction 約分 yuēfēn reduction of a fraction 2 [in spoken forms of fractions and percentages] 三分之一 sānfēn zhīyī one-third 十分之七 shífēn zhī qī seven-tenths 百分之四 bǎifēn zhī sì four per cent 3 one tenth (of certain units of the metric system) 4 fen (of the traditional system of weights and measures) a a traditional unit of length, equal to 0.01 chi (市尺), and equivalent to 0.333 centimetre or 0.131 inch b a traditional unit of weight, equal to 0.001 jin (市斤), and equivalent to 0.5 gram or 0.175 ounce c a traditional unit of area, equal to 0.1 mu (市畝) and equivalent to 0.667 acre or 79.73 square yards d a unit of weight equal to 0.1 qian (錢) or 0.01 liang (兩) 5 fen (equal to one hundredth of a yuan (元)) 六元三角五分 liù yuán sānjiǎo wǔfēn 6.35 yuan 6 minute (equal to one sixtieth of an hour) 7 minute (equal to one sixtieth of a degree of angle or arc) 成 36 度 30分角 chéng 36 dù 30fēn jiǎo form an angle of 36 degrees 30 minutes (36°30′) 東經 129 度 15分 dōngjīng 129 dù 15 fēn 129 degrees 15 minutes (129°15′) east longitude 8 a unit of interest rate a 1% monthly interest 月利一分二釐. yuèlì yī fēn èr lí 1.2% monthly interest b 10% annual interest 年利一分二釐. niánlì yī fēn èr lí 12% annual interest 9 point; mark 六十分為及格。 Liùshí fēnwéi jígé. Sixty is the passing mark. 甲隊罰球連得二分。 Jiǎ duì fáqiú lián de èrfēn. Team A scored two successive points by free throws. 他今天考試得了一百分。 Tā jīntiān kǎoshì déle yībǎi fēn. He got full marks in today’s exam. 10 [for nonphysical things] one-tenth 七分成績, 三分錯誤 Qī fēn chéngjì, sānfēn cuòwù 70 per cent achievements, 30 per cent mistakes 他已經有三分醉了。 Tā yǐjing yǒu sānfēn zuì le. He’s a bit tipsy already. 我的牙痛好了幾分。 Wǒ de yátòng hǎo le jǐ fēn. My toothache has been partly relieved. 這消息使我多了一分希望。 Zhè xiāoxi shǐ wǒ duō le yī fēn xīwàng. The news raised my hopes a little.